README.md, before:

Create an app for the Google Play Store that features nursery songs for children

# Built with React Native

[Udemy course used](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-react-native-and-redux-course/learn/lecture/15706480)

# DATABASE:
[Options available (StackOverflow)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44376002/what-are-my-options-for-storing-data-when-using-react-native-ios-and-android)
[Picking a database to use for my app (YT)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NxyvPltvvBE)
Options to look at:
- Firebase [pricing](https://www.quora.com/How-many-visitors-does-Firebase-support-in-free-and-paid-plans-Is-Firebase-costly): Online storage OR Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
- [Realm Database](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86kq_6nNuwU) (open source and free!)

(What about MongoDB? It would be good to use this since the tutorial used it)

What to store:
- Assets (asset folder: this will be the same for everyone):
  - A select number of songs for normal speed (local data)
  - Any self-made logos and icons
- Paulstretch songs (Large data - store on server)
- Videos for the About and Support My Child page (Large data - store on server)
- Playlists that the user made (Virtually nothing, should be available without internet connection - local data)

# Figuring out Google Play
- [General Guide](https://orangesoft.co/blog/how-to-publish-an-android-app-on-google-play-store)
- [Rules for apps](https://orangesoft.co/blog/why-google-and-apple-may-remove-your-app)
- [Best Practices](https://play.google.com/console/about/)

# Figuring out the App Store (iOS)

# Where to get advertisements to show on your app
AdMob, StartApp, or InMobi

# Public Domain and Copyright Laws

All songs used in this app will adhere to the "70 year rule", in that copyright, 
for most countries, is no longer applicable for works whose author has been 
deceased for more than 70 years. 

In the US, works are in the public domain if the publication date is before 
January 1, 1927.

[Songs in the public domain (supposedly)](https://www.pdinfo.com/mobile/pd-music-genres/pd-children-songs.php)

[World map of country copyright laws](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries%27_copyright_lengths#/media/File:World_copyright_terms.svg)

# Source Music

| Nursery | Classical |
| ------- | --------- |
| Lavender Blue (Originally published in 1877, author Walter Crane deceased since 1915) ([Licence](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:The_Baby%27s_Opera_A_book_of_old_Rhymes_and_The_Music_by_the_Earliest_Masters_Book_Cover_11.png))| Mozart Andante. Sonate KV 545 Movt. 1 |
| Row, Row, Row Your Boat (Origianlly published in 1852, composer Eliphalet Oram Lyte deceased since 1913) ([License](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Row_your_boat.svg)) | Mozart Andante. Sonate KV 545 Movt. 2 |
| Old McDonald Had A Farm (Alledged composer Thomas d'Urfey deceased since 1723) [Article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_MacDonald_Had_a_Farm) | Mozart Andante. Sonate KV 545 Movt. 3 |
| Hot Cross Buns | Mozart Variations of "Ah! Vous Dirai-je Maman" (Theme,Var.1,3,5,8,9,11) K.265 |
| Are You Sleeping? (Two Tigers) | Mozart Piano Sonata no.11 in A Major, Movt. 1 K.331 |
| London Bridge Is Falling Down | Mozart Piano Sonata no.11 in A Major, Movt. 3 "Rondo alla Turca" K.331 |
| Alouette (Alouette, the Lark) | Mozart Piano Sonata no.5 in G Major, I. "Allegro" K.382 |
| If You're Happy And You Know It | Mozart Piano Sonata no.5 in G Major, I. "Allegro" K.382 |
| Three Blind Mice | Chopin op. 57 |
| Mary had a Little Lamb | Chopin Op. 28 No. 15 |
| | Bach prelude in C BVW 846 |
| | Debussy Clair de Lune |

# Recordings Used

_Note: All of the nursery song recordings were originals._

| Classical Song | Recording used | 
| ------- | --------- |


# Future Songs
- Chopin Nouvelle Etude No. 2
- Bach Minuet in G major, BWV Anh. 114
- [~~Beethoven: Sonata No.20 in G Major, Op.49 No.2 Movt. 2~~](https://musopen.org/music/45-piano-sonata-no-20-in-g-major-op-49-no-2/) [License](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/mark/1.0/)
- Chopin Waltz in A minor
- Pathetique Sonata, 2nd Mvt.
- [~~Chopin Nocturne Op. 32 No. 1 in B Major~~](https://musopen.org/music/109-nocturnes-op-32/) [License](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/mark/1.0/)

Nursery:
- She'll be coming round the mountain when she comes
- I'm a little teapot
- The Itsy Bitsy Spider


# Sources of Revenue
- Banner ads
- Affiliate Marketing

# Future Features
- Implement a keyboard for infants to use in order to learn how to play the basic
nursery melodies.

Commit message:

Starting configuring music playing UI

README.md, after:

Create an app for the Google Play Store that features nursery songs for children

# Built with React Native

[Udemy course used](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-react-native-and-redux-course/learn/lecture/15706480)

# General Questions and Barriers
- How will I know what language the user prefers?
- How do I play music?
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fOtCxD3AodY
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-F8twDee9rA
- How to I configure notifications for the app, such as when to play music for the child?
- 



# DATABASE:
[Options available (StackOverflow)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44376002/what-are-my-options-for-storing-data-when-using-react-native-ios-and-android)
[Picking a database to use for my app (YT)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NxyvPltvvBE)
Options to look at:
- Firebase [pricing](https://www.quora.com/How-many-visitors-does-Firebase-support-in-free-and-paid-plans-Is-Firebase-costly): Online storage OR Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
- [Realm Database](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86kq_6nNuwU) (open source and free!)

(What about MongoDB? It would be good to use this since the tutorial used it)

What to store:
- Assets (asset folder: this will be the same for everyone):
  - A select number of songs for normal speed (local data)
  - Any self-made logos and icons
- Paulstretch songs (Large data - store on server)
- Videos for the About and Support My Child page (Large data - store on server)
- Playlists that the user made (Virtually nothing, should be available without internet connection - local data)

# Figuring out Google Play
- [General Guide](https://orangesoft.co/blog/how-to-publish-an-android-app-on-google-play-store)
- [Rules for apps](https://orangesoft.co/blog/why-google-and-apple-may-remove-your-app)
- [Best Practices](https://play.google.com/console/about/)

# Figuring out the App Store (iOS)

# Where to get advertisements to show on your app
AdMob, StartApp, or InMobi

# Public Domain and Copyright Laws

All songs used in this app will adhere to the "70 year rule", in that copyright, 
for most countries, is no longer applicable for works whose author has been 
deceased for more than 70 years. 

In the US, works are in the public domain if the publication date is before 
January 1, 1927.

[Songs in the public domain (supposedly)](https://www.pdinfo.com/mobile/pd-music-genres/pd-children-songs.php)

[World map of country copyright laws](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries%27_copyright_lengths#/media/File:World_copyright_terms.svg)

# Source Music

| Nursery | Classical |
| ------- | --------- |
| Lavender Blue (Originally published in 1877, author Walter Crane deceased since 1915) ([Licence](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:The_Baby%27s_Opera_A_book_of_old_Rhymes_and_The_Music_by_the_Earliest_Masters_Book_Cover_11.png))| Mozart Andante. Sonate KV 545 Movt. 1 |
| Row, Row, Row Your Boat (Origianlly published in 1852, composer Eliphalet Oram Lyte deceased since 1913) ([License](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Row_your_boat.svg)) | Mozart Andante. Sonate KV 545 Movt. 2 |
| Old McDonald Had A Farm (Alledged composer Thomas d'Urfey deceased since 1723) [Article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_MacDonald_Had_a_Farm) | Mozart Andante. Sonate KV 545 Movt. 3 |
| Hot Cross Buns | Mozart Variations of "Ah! Vous Dirai-je Maman" (Theme,Var.1,3,5,8,9,11) K.265 |
| Are You Sleeping? (Two Tigers) | Mozart Piano Sonata no.11 in A Major, Movt. 1 K.331 |
| London Bridge Is Falling Down | Mozart Piano Sonata no.11 in A Major, Movt. 3 "Rondo alla Turca" K.331 |
| Alouette (Alouette, the Lark) | Chopin Op. 57 |
| If You're Happy And You Know It | Chopin Op. 28 No. 15 |
| Three Blind Mice | Bach prelude in C BVW 846 |
| Mary had a Little Lamb | Debussy Clair de Lune |

# Recordings Used

_Note: All of the nursery song recordings were originals._

| Classical Song | Recording used | 
| ------- | --------- |


# Future Songs
- Mozart Piano Sonata no.5 in G Major, I. "Allegro" K.283 (Originally thought of this, may be too intense in some parts.)
- Chopin Nouvelle Etude No. 2
- Bach Minuet in G major, BWV Anh. 114
- [~~Beethoven: Sonata No.20 in G Major, Op.49 No.2 Movt. 2~~](https://musopen.org/music/45-piano-sonata-no-20-in-g-major-op-49-no-2/) [License](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/mark/1.0/)
- Chopin Waltz in A minor
- Pathetique Sonata, 2nd Mvt.
- [~~Chopin Nocturne Op. 32 No. 1 in B Major~~](https://musopen.org/music/109-nocturnes-op-32/) [License](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/mark/1.0/)


Nursery:
- She'll be coming round the mountain when she comes
- I'm a little teapot
- The Itsy Bitsy Spider


# Sources of Revenue
- Banner ads
- Affiliate Marketing
- 

# Future Features
- Implement a keyboard for infants to use in order to learn how to play the basic
nursery melodies.
- Paulstretch to advertise with speakers to place over belly
